Update azidentity docs (#16061)
Azure/azure-sdk-for-go: sdk/azidentity/troubleshoot.md

# Troubleshoot Azure Identity authentication issues

> `azidentity` credential types return errors when authentication fails or they are otherwise unable to authenticate. This troubleshooting guide describes steps you can take to resolve such errors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`azidentity` credential types return errors when authentication fails or they're otherwise unable to authenticate. This troubleshooting guide describes steps you can take to resolve such errors.
```

## Table of contents

- [Troubleshoot Default Azure Credential authentication issues](#troubleshoot-default-azure-credential-authentication-issues)
- [Troubleshoot environment credential authentication issues](#troubleshoot-environment-credential-authentication-issues)
- [Troubleshoot service principal authentication issues](#troubleshoot-service-principal-authentication-issues)
- [Troubleshoot user password authentication issues](#troubleshoot-user-password-authentication-issues)
- [Troubleshoot Managed Identity authentication issues](#troubleshoot-managed-identity-authentication-issues)
- [Troubleshoot Azure CLI authentication issues](#troubleshoot-azure-cli-authentication-issues)

## Troubleshoot Default Azure Credential authentication issues

`DefaultAzureCredential` attempts to retrieve an access token by sequentially invoking a chain of credentials. An error from this credential signifies that every credential in the chain failed to acquire a token. To address this, follow the configuration instructions for the respective credential you intend to use. This document contains more guidance for handling errors from each credential type:

> -  [Environment credential](#troubleshoot-environment-credential-authentication-issues) |
> -  [Managed Identity](#troubleshoot-managed-identity-authentication-issues) |
> -  [Azure CLI](#troubleshoot-azure-cli-authentication-issues) |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  [Environment credential](#troubleshoot-environment-credential-authentication-issues)
-  [Managed Identity](#troubleshoot-managed-identity-authentication-issues)
-  [Azure CLI](#troubleshoot-azure-cli-authentication-issues)
```

## Troubleshoot environment credential authentication issues

> #### Environment variables not configured

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Environment variables not configured
```

`EnvironmentCredential` supports service principal and user password authentication. `NewEnvironmentCredential()` returns an error when environment configuration is incomplete. To fix this, set the appropriate environment variables for the identity you want to authenticate:

> ##### Service principal with secret

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Service principal with secret
```

| Variable name | Value |
| --- | --- |
`AZURE_CLIENT_ID` | ID of an Azure AD app. |
`AZURE_TENANT_ID` | ID of the app's Azure AD tenant. |
`AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET` | One of the app's client secrets. |

> ##### Service principal with certificate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Service principal with certificate
```

| Variable name | Value |
| --- | --- |
`AZURE_CLIENT_ID` | ID of an Azure AD app. |
`AZURE_TENANT_ID` | ID of the app's Azure AD tenant. |
`AZURE_CLIENT_CERTIFICATE_PATH` | Path to a PEM-encoded or PKCS12 certificate file including private key (without password protection). |

> ##### User password

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### User password
```

### Client certificate credential issues

`ClientCertificateCredential` authenticates with a certificate in PKCS12 (PFX) or PEM format. The certificate must first be registered for your service principal. To register a certificate, see [Upload a certificate](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/develop/howto-create-service-principal-portal#option-1-upload-a-certificate).

## Troubleshoot managed identity authentication issues

### Managed identity unavailable

[Managed identity authentication](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/managed-identities-azure-resources/overview) requires support from the hosting environment, which may require configuration to expose a managed identity to your app. `azidentity` has been tested with managed identities on these Azure services:

> - [Azure Virtual Machines](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/managed-identities-azure-resources/qs-configure-portal-windows-vm)
> - [Azure App Service](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/app-service/overview-managed-identity)
> - [Azure Kubernetes Service](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/aks/use-managed-identity)
> - [Azure Cloud Shell](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/cloud-shell/overview)
> - [Azure Arc](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/azure-arc/servers/managed-identity-authentication)
> - [Azure Service Fabric](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/service-fabric/configure-existing-cluster-enable-managed-identity-token-service)
> 

Reviewer: Alphabetize the list.

```suggestion
- [Azure App Service](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/app-service/overview-managed-identity)
- [Azure Arc](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/azure-arc/servers/managed-identity-authentication)
- [Azure Cloud Shell](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/cloud-shell/overview)
- [Azure Kubernetes Service](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/aks/use-managed-identity)
- [Azure Service Fabric](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/service-fabric/configure-existing-cluster-enable-managed-identity-token-service)
- [Azure Virtual Machines](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/managed-identities-azure-resources/qs-configure-portal-windows-vm)
```

# Troubleshoot Azure Identity authentication issues

> `azidentity` credential types return errors when authentication fails or they are otherwise unable to authenticate.
> This troubleshooting guide describes steps you can take to resolve such errors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`azidentity` credential types return errors when authentication fails or they are otherwise unable to authenticate. This troubleshooting guide describes steps you can take to resolve such errors.
```

## Table of contents

> - [Troubleshoot Default Azure Credential Authentication issues](#troubleshoot-default-azure-credential-authentication-issues)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Troubleshoot Default Azure Credential authentication issues](#troubleshoot-default-azure-credential-authentication-issues)
```

- [Troubleshoot environment credential authentication issues](#troubleshoot-environment-credential-authentication-issues)
- [Troubleshoot service principal authentication issues](#troubleshoot-service-principal-authentication-issues)
- [Troubleshoot user password authentication issues](#troubleshoot-user-password-authentication-issues)
- [Troubleshoot Managed Identity authentication issues](#troubleshoot-managed-identity-authentication-issues)
- [Troubleshoot Azure CLI authentication issues](#troubleshoot-azure-cli-authentication-issues)

> ## Troubleshoot Default Azure Credential issues

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Troubleshoot Default Azure Credential authentication issues
```

`DefaultAzureCredential` attempts to retrieve an access token by sequentially invoking a chain of credentials. An error from this credential signifies that every credential in the chain failed to acquire a token. To address this, follow the configuration instructions for the respective credential you intend to use. This document contains more guidance for handling errors from each credential type:

-  [Environment credential](#troubleshoot-environment-credential-authentication-issues) |
-  [Managed Identity](#troubleshoot-managed-identity-authentication-issues) |
-  [Azure CLI](#troubleshoot-azure-cli-authentication-issues) |

> ## Troubleshoot environment credential issues

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Troubleshoot environment credential authentication issues
```

#### Environment variables not configured

`EnvironmentCredential` supports service principal and user password authentication. `NewEnvironmentCredential()` returns an error when environment configuration is incomplete. To fix this, set the appropriate environment variables for the identity you want to authenticate:

##### Service principal with secret

> | Variable Name | Value |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Variable name | Value |
```

- [service principal](#troubleshoot-service-principal-authentication-issues)
- [user password](#troubleshoot-user-password-authentication-issues)

## Troubleshoot user password authentication issues

### Two-factor authentication required

`UsernamePasswordCredential` isn't compatible with any kind of multifactor authentication.

## Troubleshoot service principal authentication issues

### Create a new service principal

To create a new service principal, follow the instructions at [Create an Azure service principal with the Azure CLI](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/create-an-azure-service-principal-azure-cli).

### Invalid arguments

#### Client ID

Authenticating a service principal requires a client or "application" ID and tenant ID. These are required parameters for `NewClientSecretCredential()` and `NewClientCertificateCredential()`. If you've already created your service principal, you can retrieve these IDs by following the instructions at [Get tenant and app ID values for signing in](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/develop/howto-create-service-principal-portal#get-tenant-and-app-id-values-for-signing-in).

#### Client secret

> A client secret, also called an application password, is a secret string that an application uses to prove its identity. Azure AD doesn't expose the values of existing secrets. If you've already created a service principal, follow the instructions at [Create a new application secret](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/develop/howto-create-service-principal-portal#option-2-create-a-new-application-secret) to create a new secret.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A client secret, also called an application password, is a secret string that an app uses to prove its identity. Azure AD doesn't expose the values of existing secrets. If you've already created a service principal, follow the instructions at [Create a new app secret](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/develop/howto-create-service-principal-portal#option-2-create-a-new-application-secret) to create a new secret.
```

### Client certificate credential issues

> `ClientCertificateCredential` authenticates with a certificate in PKCS12 (PFX) or PEM format. The certificate must first be registered for your service principal. Follow the instructions at [Upload a certificate](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/develop/howto-create-service-principal-portal#option-1-upload-a-certificate) to register a certificate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`ClientCertificateCredential` authenticates with a certificate in PKCS12 (PFX) or PEM format. The certificate must first be registered for your service principal. To register a certificate, see [Upload a certificate](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/develop/howto-create-service-principal-portal#option-1-upload-a-certificate).
```

## Troubleshoot managed identity authentication issues

### Managed identity unavailable

[Managed identity authentication](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/managed-identities-azure-resources/overview) requires support from the hosting environment, which may require configuration to expose a managed identity to your app. `azidentity` has been tested with managed identities on these Azure services:

- [Azure Virtual Machines](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/managed-identities-azure-resources/qs-configure-portal-windows-vm)
- [Azure App Service](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/app-service/overview-managed-identity)
- [Azure Kubernetes Service](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/aks/use-managed-identity)
- [Azure Cloud Shell](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/cloud-shell/overview)
- [Azure Arc](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/azure-arc/servers/managed-identity-authentication)
- [Azure Service Fabric](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/service-fabric/configure-existing-cluster-enable-managed-identity-token-service)

## Troubleshoot Azure CLI authentication issues

### Azure CLI not installed

> The Azure CLI must be installed and on the app's path. Follow the instructions at [How to install the Azure CLI](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/install-azure-cli) to install it. Then try authenticating again.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Azure CLI must be installed and on the app's path. To install it, see [How to install the Azure CLI](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/install-azure-cli). Then try authenticating again.
```

> # Troubleshooting Azure Identity Authentication Issues

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Troubleshoot Azure Identity authentication issues
```

`azidentity` credential types return errors when authentication fails or they are otherwise unable to authenticate.
This troubleshooting guide describes steps you can take to resolve such errors.

## Table of contents

> - [Troubleshooting Default Azure Credential Authentication Issues](#troubleshooting-default-azure-credential-authentication-issues)
> - [Troubleshooting Environment Credential Authentication Issues](#troubleshooting-environment-credential-authentication-issues)
> - [Troubleshooting Service Principal Authentication Issues](#troubleshooting-service-principal-authentication-issues)
> - [Troubleshooting User Password Authentication Issues](#troubleshooting-user-password-authentication-issues)
> - [Troubleshooting Managed Identity Authentication Issues](#troubleshooting-managed-identity-authentication-issues)
> - [Troubleshooting Azure CLI Authentication Issues](#troubleshooting-azure-cli-authentication-issues)

Reviewer: Use sentence casing and avoid gerunds in headings.

```suggestion
- [Troubleshoot Default Azure Credential Authentication issues](#troubleshoot-default-azure-credential-authentication-issues)
- [Troubleshoot environment credential authentication issues](#troubleshoot-environment-credential-authentication-issues)
- [Troubleshoot service principal authentication issues](#troubleshoot-service-principal-authentication-issues)
- [Troubleshoot user password authentication issues](#troubleshoot-user-password-authentication-issues)
- [Troubleshoot Managed Identity authentication issues](#troubleshoot-managed-identity-authentication-issues)
- [Troubleshoot Azure CLI authentication issues](#troubleshoot-azure-cli-authentication-issues)
```

> ## Troubleshooting Default Azure Credential Issues

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Troubleshoot Default Azure Credential issues
```

`DefaultAzureCredential` attempts to retrieve an access token by sequentially invoking a chain of credentials. An error from this credential signifies that every credential in the chain failed to acquire a token. To address this, follow the configuration instructions for the respective credential you intend to use. This document contains more guidance for handling errors from each credential type:

> -  [Environment Credential](#troubleshooting-environment-credential-authentication-issues) |
> -  [Managed Identity](#troubleshooting-managed-identity-authentication-issues) |
> -  [Azure CLI](#troubleshooting-azure-cli-authentication-issues) |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  [Environment credential](#troubleshoot-environment-credential-authentication-issues) |
-  [Managed Identity](#troubleshoot-managed-identity-authentication-issues) |
-  [Azure CLI](#troubleshoot-azure-cli-authentication-issues) |
```

> ## Troubleshooting Environment Credential Issues

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Troubleshoot environment credential issues
```

#### Environment variables not configured

`EnvironmentCredential` supports service principal and user password authentication. `NewEnvironmentCredential()` returns an error when environment configuration is incomplete. To fix this, set the appropriate environment variables for the identity you want to authenticate:

##### Service principal with secret

| Variable Name | Value |
| --- | --- |

> AZURE_CLIENT_ID | ID of an Azure Active Directory application. |
> AZURE_TENANT_ID | ID of the application's Azure Active Directory tenant. |
> AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET | One of the application's client secrets. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`AZURE_CLIENT_ID` | ID of an Azure AD app. |
`AZURE_TENANT_ID` | ID of the app's Azure AD tenant. |
`AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET` | One of the app's client secrets. |
```

##### Service principal with certificate

| Variable name | Value |
| --- | --- |

> AZURE_CLIENT_ID | ID of an Azure Active Directory application. |
> AZURE_TENANT_ID | ID of the application's Azure Active Directory tenant. |
> AZURE_CLIENT_CERTIFICATE_PATH | Path to a PEM-encoded or PKCS12 certificate file including private key (without password protection). |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`AZURE_CLIENT_ID` | ID of an Azure AD app. |
`AZURE_TENANT_ID` | ID of the app's Azure AD tenant. |
`AZURE_CLIENT_CERTIFICATE_PATH` | Path to a PEM-encoded or PKCS12 certificate file including private key (without password protection). |
```

##### User password

| Variable name | Value |
| --- | --- |

> AZURE_CLIENT_ID | ID of an Azure Active Directory application. |
> AZURE_USERNAME | A username (usually an email address). |
> AZURE_PASSWORD | The associated password for the given username. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`AZURE_CLIENT_ID` | ID of an Azure AD app. |
`AZURE_USERNAME` | A username (usually an email address). |
`AZURE_PASSWORD` | The associated password for the given username. |
```

### Authentication failures

> `EnvironmentCredential` supports service principal and user password authentication.
> Please follow the troubleshooting guidelines below for the respective authentication method.

Reviewer: In general, avoid using the word "please" in docs.

```suggestion
`EnvironmentCredential` supports service principal and user password authentication. Follow the troubleshooting guidelines below for the respective authentication method.
```

> - [service principal](#troubleshooting-service-principal-authentication-issues)
> - [user password](#troubleshooting-user-password-authentication-issues)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [service principal](#troubleshoot-service-principal-authentication-issues)
- [user password](#troubleshoot-user-password-authentication-issues)
```

> ## Troubleshooting user password authentication issues

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Troubleshoot user password authentication issues
```

> ### Two factor authentication required

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Two-factor authentication required
```

`UsernamePasswordCredential` isn't compatible with any kind of multifactor authentication.

> ## Troubleshooting service principal authentication issues

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Troubleshoot service principal authentication issues
```

### Create a new service principal

> Please follow the instructions [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/create-an-azure-service-principal-azure-cli)
> to create a new service principal.

Reviewer: Avoid using the word "here" as link text.

```suggestion
To create a new service principal, follow the instructions at [Create an Azure service principal with the Azure CLI](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/create-an-azure-service-principal-azure-cli).
```

### Invalid arguments

#### Client ID

> Authenticating a service principal requires a client or "application" ID and tenant ID. These are
> required parameters for `NewClientSecretCredential()` and `NewClientCertificateCredential()`. If you
> have already created your service principal, you can retrieve these IDs by following the instructions
> [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/develop/howto-create-service-principal-portal#get-tenant-and-app-id-values-for-signing-in).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Authenticating a service principal requires a client or "application" ID and tenant ID. These are required parameters for `NewClientSecretCredential()` and `NewClientCertificateCredential()`. If you've already created your service principal, you can retrieve these IDs by following the instructions at [Get tenant and app ID values for signing in](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/develop/howto-create-service-principal-portal#get-tenant-and-app-id-values-for-signing-in).
```

#### Client secret

> A client secret, also called an application password, is a secret string that an application uses to prove its identity.
> Azure Active Directory doesn't expose the values of existing secrets. If you have already created a service principal you can follow the instructions
> [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/develop/howto-create-service-principal-portal#option-2-create-a-new-application-secret)
> to create a new secret.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A client secret, also called an application password, is a secret string that an application uses to prove its identity. Azure AD doesn't expose the values of existing secrets. If you've already created a service principal, follow the instructions at [Create a new application secret](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/develop/howto-create-service-principal-portal#option-2-create-a-new-application-secret) to create a new secret.
```

### Client certificate credential issues

> `ClientCertificateCredential` authenticates with a certificate in PKCS12 (PFX) or PEM format. The certificate must first be registered for your service principal.
> Follow the instructions [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/develop/howto-create-service-principal-portal#option-1-upload-a-certificate).
> to register a certificate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`ClientCertificateCredential` authenticates with a certificate in PKCS12 (PFX) or PEM format. The certificate must first be registered for your service principal. Follow the instructions at [Upload a certificate](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/develop/howto-create-service-principal-portal#option-1-upload-a-certificate) to register a certificate.
```

> ## Troubleshooting managed identity authentication issues

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Troubleshoot managed identity authentication issues
```

### Managed identity unavailable

> [Managed identity authentication](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/managed-identities-azure-resources/overview) requires support from the hosting environment, which may require configuration
> to expose a managed identity to your application. `azidentity` has been tested with managed
> identities on these Azure services:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Managed identity authentication](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/managed-identities-azure-resources/overview) requires support from the hosting environment, which may require configuration to expose a managed identity to your app. `azidentity` has been tested with managed identities on these Azure services:
```

- [Azure Virtual Machines](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/managed-identities-azure-resources/qs-configure-portal-windows-vm)
- [Azure App Service](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/app-service/overview-managed-identity)
- [Azure Kubernetes Service](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/aks/use-managed-identity)
- [Azure Cloud Shell](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/cloud-shell/overview)
- [Azure Arc](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/azure-arc/servers/managed-identity-authentication)
- [Azure Service Fabric](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/service-fabric/configure-existing-cluster-enable-managed-identity-token-service)

> ## Troubleshooting Azure CLI Authentication Issues

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Troubleshoot Azure CLI authentication issues
```

> ### Azure CLI Not Installed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Azure CLI not installed
```

> The Azure CLI must be installed and on the application's path. Follow the instructions
> [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/install-azure-cli) to install it and then try authenticating again.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Azure CLI must be installed and on the app's path. Follow the instructions at [How to install the Azure CLI](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/install-azure-cli) to install it. Then try authenticating again.
```

### Azure account not logged in

> `AzureCLICredential` authenticates as the identity currently logged in to Azure CLI.
> You need to login to your account in Azure CLI via `az login` command. You can further read instructions to [Sign in with Azure CLI](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/authenticate-azure-cli).
> Once logged in try running the credential again.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`AzureCLICredential` authenticates as the identity currently logged in to Azure CLI. You need to log in to your account in Azure CLI via the `az login` command. You can read further instructions to [Sign in with Azure CLI](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/authenticate-azure-cli). Once logged in, try running the credential again.
```
